So welcome back, guys, in this section of the course, we will going to focus especially on multithreaded
processes.
We will learn that whole stack or heap memory management is done in case if our process is a multithreaded
process.
So far, we have considered only single threaded process for all the discussions we have so far regarding
memory management, so a process can give birth to multiple threads, threads in can generate more threads.
So thread share almost everything amongst each other as well as with the patent process.
So these are the things with the thread share with each other as well as with the parent process.
That is the court segment in a process which will address the space is shared among all the threads
which has been created by the process.
When I say share, it means that physical pages into which this court segment is.
Included are actually shared among all the threads which are generated by the process here, sharing
means that there will be exactly one copy of physical pages, which belongs to the code segment of a
process.
Similarly, the data segment, which is both initialised and initialised portion of data segment in
virtually the space of a process, is also shared by all the threats that is generated by the process.
If the process has certain final descriptors, such as the process has opened certain sockets or message
cues or various other resources.
Then as soon as the process creates threads, threads will have an access to all these file descriptors.
It means that these open file descriptors are also shared by all the threads that is created by a process.
And most important among all of these is the memory.
We already know that if a process generate a thread, a thread can access all the data structures which
is residing in the memory of the process.
In fact, if a thread modify any data structure which is present in the heap memory, that modification
is visible to the process also as well as other threads of a process.
So it means that the physical pages corresponding to the heap memory is also shared by all the threads
of a process, but there is one thing that is not shared between threads of a process, and that is
the stack memory.
Every thread on a process has its own private STAC memory.
Every thread has its own exclusive private STAC memory.
We will see how stacked memory is managed by the operating system in multithreaded environment.
So each thread has its own execution flow, which is independent of other threats.
Hence it is required that they have a separate stack memory.
Right, because we know that it is the stack memory which is responsible for program execution.
That is just the stack mumbly with supports procedure call it returns.
So because every thread has its own execution flow, it means that every trat needs its own private
stack memory because Ted shares many things among themselves.
And we have already listed that these are the things which are shared by all the threads of a process.
So common operating system not have to work too hard in order to create or destroy threads.
Right, because most of the kernel resources, which the new thread requires, has already been created
by the parent process.
So that is why, because the creation and destruction of the thread is a lightweight operation.
Therefore, tribes are also called as lightwater process.
So let us see what changes happen to the process which will address the space and how its tables of
a process are set up or modified when it creates or destroy new threats.
And this is a goal or objective of the section of the course.